[Applause]
[Music]
Hollywood to our viewers all around the
world thank you for watching thank you
for having me it is a great honor to be
invited back for a second time it's a
great honor to be here among so many
talented women and men congratulations
to all of you you made it we're at the
Oscars some of you will be going home
tonight with an Academy Award what could
be better than that nothing right so I
do want to mention this year when you
hear your name called don't get up right
away give us a minute we don't want
another thing what happened last year
was unfortunate I've not told this story
in public because I wanted to save it
for tonight but here's what happened
this is true last year about a week
before the show the producers asked me
if I wanted to do some comedy with the
accountants and I said no I don't want
to do comedy with the accountants so
then the accountants went ahead and did
comedy on their own and I have to hand
it to them it was hilarious but it won't
happen again this year the chairman of
PricewaterhouseCoopers said and I quote
our singular focus will be on the show
and delivering the correct envelopes
which is does make sense just out of
curiosity though what was your focus the
other 89 years
I'm hopeful that things will go smoothly
tonight we can't ruin this one this is a
special year this is a big one these are
the 90th Academy Awards this is history
happening right here Austria is 90 years
old tonight which means he's probably at
home right now watching Fox News of
course no Oscar is here with us after
all the years for all the awards given
for achievements in show business
Oscar is still number one no question
about it Oscar is the most beloved and
respected man in Hollywood and there's a
very good reason why just look at him
keeps his hands where you can see them
never says a rude word and most
importantly no penis at all he is
literally a statue of limitations and
that's the kind of men we need more of
in this town here's how clueless
Hollywood is about women we made a movie
called what women want and it starred
Mel Gibson Chyna all you need to know
the Academy as you're no doubt aware
took action last year to expel Harvey
Weinstein from their ranks there were a
lot of great nominees but Harvey
deserved it to boast and oh that's nice
it's very sweet so
I'm sure he'll appreciate that applause
the Academy kicked him out and after
they did I was curious so I looked it up
you know the only other person to be
expelled from the Academy ever was a
character actor named carmine Peretti
in 2004 he was kicked out for sharing
screeners carmine kerydin got the same
punishment as Harvey Weinstein for
giving his neighbor a copy of Seabiscuit
on VHS but what happened with Harvey and
what's happening all over was long
overdue we can't let bad behavior slide
any more the world is watching us we
need to set an example and the truth is
if we are successful here if we can work
together to stop sexual harassment in
the workplace if we can do that women
will only have to deal with harassment
all the time at every other place they
go over the course of this evening I
hope you will listen to many brave and
outspoken supporters of movements like
me too and time's up and never again
because what they're doing is important
things are changing for the better
they're making sure of that it is
positive changing this is a night for
positivity and our plan is to shine a
light on a group of outstanding and
inspiring films each and every one of
which got crushed by Black Panther this
weekend
the success of black panther is one of
many positive stories this year
especially for african-americans and Bob
Iger Black Panther and Wonder Woman are
a massive hits which is almost
miraculous because I remember a time
when the major studios didn't believe a
woman or a minority could open a
superhero movie and the reason I
remember that time is because it was
March of last year but this year we have
a lot to celebrate ceilings have been
shattered ceilings and screenwriting we
have our first ever female nominee for
cinematography so many of tonight's
nominees are making history and in fact
if you are a nominee today who isn't
making history shame on you
Greta Gerwig is the first woman to be
nominated for a door and that's
important only 11% of movies are
directed by women and that is nuts we
still have a very long way to go in that
department and a very long way to go
when it comes to equal pay especially
when you look at what happened with Mark
Wahlberg and Michelle Williams we all
know the story Mark Wahlberg was paid a
million and a half dollars to reshoot
his scenes while Michelle Williams for
her reshoots got per diem she was paid
$80 a day for the same thing and what
made it especially unfair is that Mark
and Michelle are represented by the same
agency and I have to admit this story
really surprised me this one shook me
because if we can't trust agents
who can we trust to his credit Mark
Wahlberg announced he would be donating
all 1.5 million dollars to The Times up
Legal Defense Fund right so I guess now
the balls in your court Michelle what
are you going to do with that 80 bucks
in the meantime triple congratulations
are in order for the kid from Comedy
Central Jordan Peele who had a huge
success
get out jordan is only the third person
in 90 years to be nominated for
directing riding and best picture for
his debut film what did they do it was
none other than president Trump called
get out the best first three-quarters of
a movie this year
margot robbie had a great year to margot
scored her first nomination for her
portrayal of Tonya Harding in hi Tonya
whose kneecaps did Tonya Harding have to
break to get this dream casting because
I mean that was if they made a movie
about my life best-case scenario I'd be
played by Jim Belushi another
exceptionally gifted young actor who is
nominated for the first time is Timothy
Shalom a are you having fun Timothy this
is a big Timothy is missing paw Patrol
to be here tonight don't worry Ryder and
his team of pups saved the day so
Timothy is the star of a small but
powerful story
called call me by your name which did
not make a lot of money fact of the nine
Best Picture nominees only two of them
made more than a hundred million dollars
but that's not the point
we don't make films like call me by your
name for money we make them to upset
Mike Pence
Timothy is the youngest doctor nominee
most eighty years and on the other end
of the abacus we have our oldest acting
nominee ever the Magnificent Christopher
Plummer is still going because maybe
this is not the place if someone I want
to be asking how does lin-manuel Miranda
compared to the real Alexander Hamilton
and once again right here in the front
row maybe the greatest actor of all time
Meryl Streep is here with us film career
started in 1977 the long that she ever
went without being nominated was from
1992 to 1995 was and that's only because
those were the years she was in prison
and that I think is amazing the most
nominated movie tonight a film that's up
for 13 Oscars is the shape of water
written and directed congratulations I'm
very happy for Guillermo you made a
beautiful movie and thanks sagir mo we
will always remember this year as the
year men screwed up so badly women
started dating fish okay before we start
handing out the awards some history
because we're going to do things a
little bit differently the first Oscar
ceremony lasted and this is true 15
minutes from beginning to end and people
still complain but so if you do win an
Oscar tonight we want you to give a
speech we want you to say whatever you
feel needs to be said speak from the
heart we want passion we will you have
an opportunity in a platform to remind
millions of people about important
things like equal rights and equal
treatment if you want to encourage
others to join the amazing students at
parkland at their March on the 24th do
that
favorite teachers do that or maybe you
just want to thank your parents and tell
your kids to go to sleep what you say is
entirely up to you you don't have to
change the world do whatever you want
but with that said this is a really long
show so here's what we're gonna do not
saying you shouldn't give a long speech
but whoever gives the shortest speech
tonight will go home with Johnny tell
them what they'll win
[Applause]
the number one choice for watercraft
enthusiasts retail price 17 $9.99 back
to you Jimmy Thank You Helen Thank You
Helen Mirren not included so there you
go why waste precious time thanking your
mom when you could be taking her for the
ride of her life on a brand-new jetski
this is not a joke I will be timing you
I have a stopwatch the moment you are
handed that Oscar the clock will start
ticking so get up here grab it and go
and in the unlikely event of a tie I
need to say the jet ski will be awarded
to Christopher Plummer so